A major issue is that the ending is very rushed, we have not even gotten to seen all of the sixteen realms yet, the ending is too early. Not only that, this season was very rushed, the Overlord returns half way through, attacks, and just gets defeated. The side plots of returning allies and Lloyd's Oni arc did not get enough time to develop. This season should have been sixty episodes.
The characters do not act like they should, especially Lloyd and Harumi, Lloyd's actions are not even consistent between consecutive episodes.
This season also continues the trend of lack of lasting consequences. Nya is resurrected, but loses her powers, which could have been a good consequence, but that was also reverted.
A lot of details from previous seasons simply gets forgotten or are incorrectly referenced, many examples will be listed below. I believe some of the writers did not even watch the previous seasons.

181. Farewell the Sea
The ninja are split up again after losing someone, this would not be an issue if it was not simply a repeat of season 4.

182. The Call of Home
The first hint that Nya is going to return is in this episode, when Nya talks to Nyad and finds that if she loses her power, she can return. Nya returning would be okay if it was not so soon.

183. The Shape of Nya
The ninja are rusty and out of shape again, a repeat of season 11. Not that bad on its own but this season is full of empty nostalgia bait and fan service.

184. A Mayor Problem
Not sure if the writers intended the message to be that breaking out Ninjago's most dangerous prisoner to bring Nya back is a good idea or not, but it is a terrible idea. Especially keeping Aspheera free to cause whatever havoc she pleases. Later on in the season this tends to have disasterous consequences.

185. Public Enemies Number 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5!
A nitpick, but episode 56 was called Public Enemy Number One, they really could not come up with a better title?

186. A Painful Promise
The ninja help Aspheera escape from being taken back to prison but turn themselves in? This makes no sense. Aspheera is recruited to the Council of the Crystal King at the end of the episode.

187. Ninjago City vs Ninja
The ninja are in prison but not chained in vengestone? Last time they were in episode 57, Enkrypted. Why not this time? What is stopping the ninja from using their elemental power to break out?

188. Kryptarium Prison Blues
Not too much to say about this episode, other than how easy the prison was to break into, but it has been broken into many times before.

189. Hounddog McBrag
Not much wrong with this episode either, other than stuff started from previous episodes.

190. The Benefit of Grief
The writers do not seem to understand Zane. In this episode Zane finally understands the importance of negative feelings such as grief, but Zane is much more human than that and he always was.

191. The Fifth Villain
Not much wrong with this episode.

192. The Council of the Crystal King
Harumi is back? Bringing back dead characters with complete character arcs are always concerning. In episode 92, Dread on Arrival, Garmadon is ressurected, but his new character arc was well written. Unfortunately, they ruined Harumi in the following episodes.

193. A Sinister Shadow
Harumi is manipulated by the Overlord. Whether a character as clever and cunning as Harumi should be manipulated by the overlord is up for debate though, as the Overlord is also very manipulative. However, Harumi should see the Overlord's deception in due time.
Harumi being the vengestone buyer makes no sense. Vangelis gains the skull roughly ten years prior to Master of the Mountain. Harumi starts buying vengestone after the Hunted, which is perhaps two years at most before Master of the Mountain.
Where does Harumi get the money to buy the vengestone? Surely she does not have access to the royal palace's treasury after she blew it up.
Harumi is not known for making sarcastic comments like the one she made at the end of the episode.

194. The Spider's design
There is no build up to Lloyd's Oni powers at all in any of the previous seasons, Ninjago at this point does not have any multi-season plots anymore, but this change is the most drastic. It does not involve discovering or learning a new ability, but an ability innate to Lloyd triggered by anger and grief.

195. The Fall of the Monestery
Not much to say other than consequences of previous episodes, Aspheera coming back to attack the Monestery of Spinjitzu.

196. Darkness Within
Aspheera is the one performing the ritual to bring the Crystal King into the physical world. Further showing the consequence of freeing Aspheera from prison.
The Overlord says Lloyd said "It ends now." the last time they fight, but he did not, the correct line was "This ends now." they couldn't even get the quote write.

197. The Coming of the King
Lloyd's behaviour is inconsistent with the previous episode. In the previous episode, he is very angry at Harumi for apparently killing off the rest of the ninja, but he is not angry anymore in this episode, which spans less than thirty minutes.

198. Return to Primeval's Eye
Even more inconsistencies with Lloyd's behaviour towards Harumi. The writers are trying to make them seem like they still have feelings for each other.

199. Crystastrophe
Again the writers make Harumi still have feelings for Lloyd. The Overlord even calls her out for this in the episode, and Harumi strongly denies it.
This episode should be the one where Harumi finally sees through the Overlord's deception as the Overlord crystalizes people into mindless zombie slaves, but she does not. At this point she should be plotting against the Overlord, we will see in the later episodes that she does not.
Wu has been receiving newspaper clippings warning him about the Overlord's return, but there was no set up for any of this in previous seasons.
The Overlord feeds off crimes happening in Ninjago? I find this to be stupid, that increases in vandalism would cause him to return.

200. Cristofern
Garmadon is just roaming around and living in Ninjago City? In episode 100, Questing for Quests, the ninja say that nobody knows where he is and finding him would be very difficult.

201. A Lesson In Anger
The power of the Oni is fueled by conflict, not Anger.
The new ninja are defeated anticlimactically by a few crystal warriors, given how effective they were in the earlier episodes, they should have had some success fighting and been defeated by the Overlord himself.

202. Brave but Foolish
Wu vs Crystal King is an amazing fight scene, but makes no sense to the plot, it only serves to demonstrate the Overlord's power. Wu should know he stands no chance and should not have tried to fight the Overlord alone.
Wu and Lloyd call the Dragon Armour the Golden Armour, these two are very distince item sets.

203. Quitting Time
Wu tries to quit, what was the point of episode 156, Masters Never Quit then?

204. Return of the Ice Emperor
Guess who does not return in this episode.

205. Safe Haven
Garmadon is showing signs of change and becoming good, but Lloyd dismisses all that, yet he tries to fix Harumi?

206. Compatible
Cole calls Vania Princess Vania, even though he was present at her coronation. This yet again shows the writers does not know the rest of the show.

207. Distress Calls
We get more of Lloyd dismissing Garmadon's attempts of being good and learning compassion.

208. An Issue of Trust
Harumi is still working for the Overlord, despite the terrible fate he is bringing upon his victims whom Harum is supposed to want to protect. She helps the Overlord track down the ninja's hidout.
Lloyd still does not trust Garmadon, even though Garmadon has shown time and time again he is on their side. Perhaps he is afraid of the Overlord manipulating Garmadon when they confront him, but since that does not happen we will never know.

209. Dragon Form
Garmadon has no reaction to the truth bomb the Overlord dropped, sure, at the time he was being electroquted, but he should have had a reaction afterward.
Harumi turning good is out of selfish revenge and not actually turning good. This feels like a poor ripoff of Vader's redemption.
Pythor was the one who released the Great Devourer, yet Harumi worked with him for a good chunk of the season? Did she not know? Even if Pythor did not brag about it to the other villains, it should be common knowledge to the people of Ninjago. Canonically, she simply did not know.
Nya gains her power back, keeping the tradition of having no lasting consequences.
The Mechanic makes fun of her for not having her powers through out the show, saying she is not a real ninja without her powers, this is odd coming from him, since he is an ordinary human who built machines to become powerful. The show then proceeds to prove him right by making Nya useless until she gets her power back in this episode.

210. Roots
Lloyd snaps out of his Oni form, sending the message that the power of the Oni is bad and should never be used. While th is reasonable for the first time he fully enters his Oni form, Lloyd should have learned to master the Oni Form without resorting to giving into anger, being able to enter his Oni Form at will similar to Garmadon, and using it to defeat the Overlord for good.
The final battle is very anticlimactic, it is literally just the final battle from season 2, but Lloyd's dragon has three extra heads. They just showed the Overlord getting overpowered by Lloyd after he gets his hands on a little bit of gold, which was fine the first time around, but not okay the second time, especially after all the extra lore we have. Lloyd should have used a combination of the elements of creation and his Oni form to defeat the Overlord.
What is stopping the Overlord from returning for a fourth time? For the finale of the series, this is never addressed. Perhaps the power of creation can defeat the Overlord, but only the power of destruction from the Oni can destroy the Overlord for good. Even if they just said they will be ready for the Overlord the next time he returns, that would be better than what we had.
Lloyd just accepts Harumi after the final battle, saying "she's with us now" even though he has infinitely times more reason to trust and accept Garmadon than Harumi. Lloyd and Garmadon's relationship never gets resolved after Garmadon fully turns good. Lloyd does not say he trusts Garmadon now, nor does he apologize.
Inner Steel is the song at the end of the epiosde. While it is an amazing song, it does not fit the ending. Overture or the Weekend Whip should have been used instead.
